In our discussion of package management systems,
we will be concentrating on using the command line.
However, all Linux distributions have at least one graphical interface.
One graphical interface is known as gnome-software,
and is available on any distribution that is running with a GNOME desktop.
So, first thing we need to do,
is to make sure that it's actually installed on our system.
So, I'll do "which gnome-software",
and it is not installed on the system.
So, I'll do "sudo yum install gnome-software",
using the yum command,
which we will discuss in great detail later.
It's only going to be a couple of megabytes.
So, we install that,
and now I'll launch it from the command line.
Just type in "gnome-software".
Notice, I'm running this as a normal user,
if it needs to actually install or remove something,
it will ask me for the password.
So, as it comes up,
it looks pretty much like an app store or Gnome Play Store,
where it shows by groupings,
by Category, the different things that are available.
So, for instance, if I were to click on System,
you'll see I have Featured,
I have File Manager,
I have File System,
File tools, et cetera, monitoring security.
So let's say, I were to go on Terminal Emulator.
Okay. I do not have XTerm installed on my system.
That's a very old-fashioned terminal program.
So, for Fran, it does say installed, actually, underneath it.
But here is an even more ancient one, X3270.
So, let's see what happens if I click on it,
it's asking me if I want to install it, and for that, it wants my password.
This is the root password on a Red Hat system,
this is CentOS 7.
So, it's now installed and I could launch it here if I wanted to see what it does,
but I'll dispense with that.
Let me remove it because I don't really need it.
So, now it's removed.
Once again it's asking me for my password.
Okay, and it's done.
And then let's go back to the main menu.
If I click on Installed applications,
I can pick on one, say,
Cheese, which is a program for taking your picture or a video of yourself.
It's good for testing your webcam.
So, let's say I want to remove that,
I'll say yes I want to remove it.
And notice it didn't ask me for the password again.
Well, let's put it back because I'd kind of like to have it.
So, I'll click Install,
and now it's installed again.
So, in the succeeding sections,
we will now discuss the command line interfaces beginning with the lower level commands
like rpm and dpkg and then, continuing with the higher level commands like yum,
dnf, zypper and apt-get. Thank you.